What is AMRUT?  --- Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) mission:
AMRUT is the new avatar of the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). But, in a significant departure from the earlier mission, the Centre will not appraise individual projects.
Details of the Mission:
AMRUT adopts a project approach to ensure basic infrastructure services relating to water supply, sewerage, storm-water drains, transportation and development of green spaces and parks with special provision for meeting the needs of children.
Under this mission, 10% of the budget allocation will be given to states and union territories as incentive based on the achievement of reforms during the previous year.
AMRUT, which seeks to lay a foundation to enable cities and towns to eventually grow into smart cities, will be implemented in 500 locations with a population of one lakh and above.
It would cover some cities situated on stems of main rivers, a few state capitals and important cities located in hilly areas, islands and tourist areas.
Under this mission, states get the flexibility of designing schemes based on the needs of identified cities and in their execution and monitoring.
States will only submit state annual action Plans to the centre for broad concurrence based on which funds will be released. But, in a significant departure from JNNURM, the central government will not appraise individual projects.
Central assistance will be to the extent of 50% of project cost for cities and towns with a population of up to 10 lakhs and one-third of the project cost for those with a population of above 10 lakhs.
Under the mission, states shall transfer funds to urban local bodies within 7 days of transfer by central government and no diversion of funds to be made failing which penal interest would be charged besides taking other adverse action by the centre.




Atal Pension Yojana
In an endeavour to help an unorganised sector of the Indian society Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi launched Atal Pension Yojana on 9th May 2015 which is administered by Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) through National pension scheme (NPS). The main objective of APY is to give old age income security for the working poor as 88% of labour does not have a formal pension scheme.
APY is a periodic contribution based plan and promises a fixed monthly pension of Rs 1000 to 5000 and a monthly contribution of a person depends upon the fixed amount he wants and the age when he starts contribution. The central government will also contribute 50% of total contribution or Rs 1000 per annum but only to those who joined APY before 31.12.2015. The minimum age of joining APY is 18 year and maximum age is 40 years. The age of exit and start of pension would be 60 years.
Moreover, this scheme is also beneficial in many ways as it creates a culture of saying for future provide social security to the weaker section of society, make self-dependent in old age.
There are some cons also like the contribution of thousand rupees by the government is only given to the people enrolled before 31st December 2015, maximum age eligibility is only 40 years, every year renewal policy and ambiguous taxation system.
However, in a country like India having the burgeoning population, a scheme like Atal Pension Yojana is the need of the hour. Through this scheme, the Indian government attempt to provide financial security to the people is really praiseworthy and will certainly bolster the morale of citizens.


Bharatmala Pariyojana
Bharatmala Pariyojana is ambitious centrally sponsored new umbrella program for Highway sector that targets to develop approximately 83677 km of road at an investment of Rs 6.92 lakh crore by 2022. The announcement of this mammoth scheme was done by Nitin Gadkari on 31st July 2015 and all the key aspects of the scheme will be managed by the ministry of road transport and highway.
Indian’s 548,200 km Road network is the second in the world, of which only 2% (110000) are national highway carrying 40% road traffic. Bharat Mala will expand the NH connection to total of 77% or 550 (current 300) district by raising the numbers of national corridor (NC) to 50 (from current 6) and move 80% of freight traffic to national highways by connecting 24 logistic parks, 66 inter corridors (IC) and 116 feeder routes (FR).
Moreover, this mission is beneficial in many ways as it will generate massive employment, boost GDP of the country, improves trade, provide connectivity to far-flung borders, rural areas and northeast India.
On ground level implementation this scheme has to face some challenges like faster land acquisition, environment clearance from Ministry of Environment and Forest, timely funding and mobilisation of equipment and raw material in the rural areas as most of the roads are to be constructed in remote areas.
The development of any Nation depends on the transportation network and the ways in which they are maintained. In this context, Bharatmala project is the need to the hour as this scheme has the potential to provide strength to the Indian economy.
 
 
 
 Essay on Cyber Security 
Cyber security means protecting data, networks, programs and other information from unauthorised or unattended access, destruction or change. In this era where the use of computers has become commonplace, cyber security is a major concern. The rapid development of Technology and the availability of the internet to most of the public, has become commonplace, cyber security is a major concern. The rapid development of Technology and the availability of the internet to most of the public, has broadened the pathway of cybercrime.
There is a different form of Cyber attacks like viruses, Malware, spyware, phishing, ransomware, fraud etc. Clicking infected web pages, malicious websites, links or unintentionally downloading a dangerous program also allow hackers to gain illegal access to other computer systems. According to report, India Steel ranks higher than Global peers as there are 54% Malware and ransomware attracts in India as compared to 47% globally. Yahoo also acknowledges that in India 3 billion accounts were breached in 2013.
Lack of cybersecurity is also a reason for some brutal terrorist attract like 26/11, 9/11 in America, Mumbai bomb blast act. This cyber security plays a key role to prevent some heinous and perilous crime like leakage of personal information, blackmailing fraud transaction through another account.
Our government has taken some Stern steps to improve the cyber security of India through National cyber security policy 2013, launched cyber swachhta Kendra in 2017 and established much cyber crime police station.
With growing internet penetration, cyber security is one of the biggest necessity of the world as cyber security threats are very dangerous to the country’s security. It is not only the government responsibility but also the citizens to spread awareness among the people to always update your system and network security settings and to the use proper anti-virus so that your system and network security settings and to use proper anti-virus so that your system stays virus and malware free.




Essay on Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 300 Words
Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana is an ambitious social welfare scheme of Narendra Modi government launched on 1st May 2016 from Ballia in Uttar Pradesh. Under this scheme, the government aims to provide free LPG connection to BPL households in the country and to enhance the status of women and caring for their health.
The primary objective of this scheme to make available 5 crore LPG connection over 3 years to women in BPL families with the financial assistance of Rs 1600. Identification of BPL families will be done through socio-economic caste census (SECC) date. Rs 8000 crore has been allocated towards the implementation of the scheme. Till now 3.78 crore LPG connections were given under this scheme.
PMUY is likely to create employment up to 1 lakh, provide the business opportunity of at least 10,000 crores and give a great boost to make in India campaign as all the manufacturers of the cylinder, gas stubs and regulators are domestic. Moreover, it will also reduce the pollution level, serious health hazards, and deaths due to unclean cooking fuels which are about 5 lakh every year in India.
Some challenges may come in the way of PMUY that is the absence of proper and authentic data of BPL families, lack of awareness regarding benefits of LPG, costly refilling and malpractices such as selling LPG cylinders in the black market.
Introducing search scheme is the need of the hour and will certainly help the weaker section of society. Such kind of visionary initiative will curb the economic disparities of society and foster the growth of a healthy society.


Essay on Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 300 Words
The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) is an effective scheme to aid poor section of Indian society. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched the scheme in Ballia, Uttar Pradesh. While launching the scheme on 10 March 2016, PM Modi said that the cooking gas scheme will benefit 5 crore families till 2019. But, We have shown how the petroleum sector is for the poor and they don’t get any benefit from that. Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana will be implemented by the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas. The scheme will be implemented on an emergency basis.
Main objectives of PMUY are enhancing the status of women and caring their health, help to decrease air pollution due to use of fossil fuel, lessening the serious health risks related with cooking based on fossil fuels, reducing the number of deaths due to unclean cooking fuels, which is about 5 lakh every year in India, preventing young children from acute respiratory illnesses caused due to indoor air pollution by burning the fossil fuels.
The documentation of eligible BPL families will be made in consultation with the State Governments and the Union Territories. Best part of the scheme is that only the women candidate from the BPL households is entitled to apply for Ujwala Yojana. This scheme has numerous challenges like identification of poor household for allotment of free LPG connection in the absence of proper and authentic data and usage of socio economic caste census data may be misused by well offs or it remain poorly targeted.
To sum up, PMUY is one of the most important schemes to assist the unemployed or self-employed individuals of India. To support poor section Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana was started. It will not only reduce the pollution but improve the quality of life of poor.



Skill India Essay 
To harness potential benefits of demographic dividend of India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the skill India mission-Kaushal Bharat Kushal Bharat on 15th July 2015. This mission comprises of various initiatives like national Skill Development Mission, national policy for skill development and Entrepreneurship, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY), skill loan scheme and rural India skill.
This campaign aims to converge and monitor all skill development across the country. It targets to train over 40 crore people in different skills by 2022. The main focus is to provide vocational training for all occupation like carpenters, cobblers, blacksmiths, nurses, tailors, weavers etc. More emphasis will be given in a new area like real estate, construction, transport, textile, banking, tourism etc. This campaign cover both rural and urban areas. For rural areas, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Kaushal Vikas Yojana has been launched and in urban areas, many training centres are being established across the country.
Major advantages of this mission are that it creates employment, improve entrepreneurship quality, develop skills in communication, management and personality development, make self-dependent and provide balanced growth in all the sectors.
Several challenges come in the way of skill India mission are inefficient execution of the plan, red tapism, Nepotism while providing jobs, a mismatch in skills provided, less awareness in rural areas and the orthodox mindset of the people.
Such a visionary initiative like skill India mission is the need of the hour that will boost the overall economic condition of the country and create synergy between education, training and work in order to make India the skill capital of the world.



Startup India Standup India
In order to put some direct emphasis on the youth entrepreneurship and new job creation opportunities for youth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched this flagship initiative scheme on 16 January 2016 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The objective of this scheme is to make India a hub of innovation, design and startups. This scheme works under the guidance of the Ministry of Commerce and industry.
Under this scheme, many steps were taken by the government such as various types of tax exemption, easy exit policy, self-certification and no inspection by regulatory for 3 years, and creating 75 startup hubs in IIT and NIT. Moreover, to promote a culture of entrepreneurship the government has passed Rs 10,000 crore corpus ‘fund of funds’ for startups, reduced 80% fee of patent filing, made company registration easier and improve ‘ease of doing business’ in the country.
Major advantages of this mission are that it generates massive employment up to 18 lakh persons, create skilled, well experienced and quality entrepreneurs, the revival of economy and improve country’s business-oriented reputation on an international platform.
Some challenges come in the way of startups are lack of capital as bank are reluctant to fund in the lack of collateral security and therefore most of the funding comes from foreign venture capitals.
To conclude, startup India is expected to generate massive employment in India. The government has made huge effort to create a Startup friendly culture in India well the challenges are many but the way India is driving to create a Startup culture it will definitely transform India from a nation of the job seeker to the nation of a job creator


Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana 
A premium saving scheme offering from Ministry of Finance, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana which encourages the parents of girls children to build a fund for the future education and marriage express for a girl child. The scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 22 January 2015 in Panipat, Haryana as a part of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign.
Under the scheme, the account can be opened anytime between the birth of the child and the time she attains 10 years age. Only one account is allowed for a child (exception allowed for twins and triplets). This account can be opened at any India post office or branch of authorised commercial banks. A minimum of rupees 1,000 must be deposited initially thereafter then any amount in the multiples of 100 can be deposited.
The scheme currently provides an interest rate of 8.1% which is not fixed and charges time to time. The amount allowed 50% withdrawal at the age of 18 for higher education purpose and this account reaches maturity after the time period of 21 years from the date of opening.
This scheme has some cons also like maturity time of account is more, money can’t be withdrawn in the case of emergency, the rate of interest is not fixed. For the ground level implementation of this scheme, the government should consider these cons and amend it.
However, in the present situation, this scheme is the need of the hour. It empowers women socially and economically in the upcoming years and prevents them from any kind of social discrimination in society.



UJALA

Unnat Jyoti by Affordable Lighting for All (UJALA) is a Zero subsidy Scheme launched by the Government of India in an effort to popularize the message of energy efficiency in the country. The scheme is being implemented by a Public Sector Undertaking of the Government of India, Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) under the Union Ministry of Power and the Electricity Distribution Company. It is a LED based Domestic Efficient Lighting Programme (DELP) targeting promotion of reduced energy consumption, energy savings and efficient lighting. Under the scheme, Electricity Distribution Company would distribute LED bulbs at subsidized rates to every grid-connected customer with a metered connection
Why LED bulbs?
LED bulbs have a lifetime of 50 times more than that of ordinary bulbs and consume just about 1/10th of the energy consumed by an ordinary bulb for a similar light output. The replacement of ordinary bulbs with LED bulbs would result in load reduction, reduced consumer bills, reduction of Greenhouse Gass Emissions and electricity savings. The government has set a target of 200 million light bulbs to be replaced by LED bulbs which is expected to result in a load reduction of 5000 MW and reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions by 79 million tonnes of CO2. UJALA is an effort to contribute to energy security in India.
UJALA is called a Zero subsidy scheme as the state governments do not bear the burden of subsidies. The total risk coverage and upfront investment is borne by EESL and is paid by DISCOM from actual energy savings over 5 years. Therefore, there is no need for the grant of subsidy by the government, and at the same time, there is no impact on the electricity bills.
